- The scientific discussion of X three.
So, this is detailed on the website,
where we make multiple references
and the reason in scientific papers
that multiple references are made
and sometimes you scroll to the bottom
of a scientific paper
and you see hundreds of references,
it's because all these things interrelate.
So when somebody looks at one
of the observations we've made
or one of the references,
and pulls a sentence out of one study
and says, well, X3 is not this,
well, right, that's why we
referenced multiple studies,
so these things all relate together.
Let me go back and talk about the history.
So I had been observing as
a bone density researcher
and I developed some machines,
some devices that stimulate bone density.
What I was doing was
loading the human body
at optimized ranges of motion,
so where humans naturally
absorb high impact.
So in the upper body about right here
where there's 120 degree
angle of inclusion right here,
delivering force here, same mathematics,
same geometry in other joints of the body.
And seeing very aggressive
bone growth as a result
of loading those positions.
I was made aware of what was
going on at Westside Barbell
which is a small gym in Ohio
that had broken more
than 140 world records
using variable resistance.
And I thought, okay, so they're
doing loading at the bottom
and then doing kind of a
hyper loading at the top
by using bands with weights.
And I thought that's very interesting.
It's a similar line of logic
to what I'm working on.
Then, in 2008, Professor
Anderson and researchers
published a study that
was a look at the results
that were taken from a
group of individuals.
So they took the Cornell athletes
from all sorts of different
sports, it was a big study,
and half of them did their
regular training protocol.
The other half did the
variable resistance protocols.
So they used actually
lower amount of weight
than they would normally lift.
And then they added bands,
so it was hyper loading at the top,
more than they could handle
at the bottom normally,
and then a lower load at the bottom.
This is really important to point out
that there was a curb to this loading.
They may have been
handling X at the bottom
and 1.3X at the top, but the
point is they use the variance.
Now, the results in that study
showed two to three times
the amount of strength
gained in the period of time,
it was 24 weeks, versus
the control, very profound.
Now, this was a verification
of what Westside Barbell
had been doing, and fantastic.
And there's observations
that have been made
with chains and bands
and all kinds of ways
to vary the resistance.
But then I took my medical device,
and there was a study done in
London, a hospital in London.
And we were looking at
post-menopausal females.
So these are not athletes,
these are actually de-conditioned,
post-menopausal females.
And something really amazing
was brought to light,
which was we were loading these women
with seven, eight, nine
times their body weight
through their hip.
So take your body weight
and multiply it by eight.
Incredible force.
Professional weightlifters
don't use that kind of weight
and these were de-conditioned women.
Now they built up to that over
a six month period of time.
But it was amazing what
they were capable of.
And that was the whole
objective behind compression
of bone and bone growth.
And that's what also
happens in high impact.
I came home back to the States
and I looked at the level of
loading that they were using,
and then looked at the level of loading
that the American College
of Sports Medicine
has in most of their documentation.
The levels of loading that non-athletic
versus athletic people deal with,
with their lower extremities.
And it was 1.3 to 1.53
multiples of body weight.
So this tells us that there's
a sevenfold difference
just based on those two datasets.
Now populations, athletes,
we're not looking at that.
But ultimately,
1.3 to 1.53 versus,
let's say on average 8.5,
I think it ended up being
8.7 multiples body weight.
That's a sevenfold difference.
So that made me look at the Anderson study
and say all right, well,
this whole idea of X here and 1.3X here
is barely scratching the surface
of what we may actually be capable of
with stimulating muscular growth.
What we really need is a lower weight here
where our joints are compromised,
and a far higher weight here.
Not only can we go higher in repetitions,
we can fatigue multiple ranges of motion,
something you cannot do
with a static weight.
So you go to fatigue
here with a high weight,
then when you can't hit
that, then you go to fatigue
at a medium weight.
Then at the end of your set
where you can barely move,
you go to fatigue here and
really short repetitions
with an even lower weight,
really easy on the joints,
and the amount of fatigue
that goes through the muscle
is far beyond what you would get
with any sort of static weight system.
Also, the amount of force,
and this is a question that we get.
It's just bands or I don't understand,
I can get a band for $40 at Walmart,
I want you to look at
this block of solid latex.
This is one of the heavier bands.
That's how much weight you're moving,
that would add for a six foot tall person
that ends up being about a 250
pound chest press, at peak.
You're gonna fatigue there
for a few repetitions,
which normally people don't
handle very many repetitions,
the average person, handle
very many repetitions
at 250 pounds.
And then you diminish the range.
So all these things, all
these studies interrelate
to make the rationale behind X3.
One clarification.
So the study that was done in London
where we exposed the very high loads
to the lower body and the kinetic chain,
these women weren't squatting
seven, eight, nine
times their body weight.
The load was just exposed in
the impact ready position.
So like I said, 120 degree
angle of inclusion right there,
that's, when you trip and fall,
that's how you absorb the force.
So these were bone compressive movements
in the optimized range of motion,
the impact range of motion.
So this was to stimulate
bone density growth.
But the clarity that it gave me
to develop X3 was that
we are really missing out
on so many triggers for growth
by not looking at the massive difference
between our capability in the strong range
and the capability in the weak range.
And ultimately, if you
look at human movement,
if you look at sprinters, they
have 180 degrees available
in their knee joint, but
they only use seven degrees
when they fire off their
toe to move forward.
So why is that?
That's the optimized range of motion.
We use the optimized range
of motion all the time
to absorb or produce
great amount of forces,
far heavier than we could ever lift.
Now, if we use variable resistance,
if we doubled down on the
variants of resistance,
and maybe for some,
forget about the weights,
we have growth potential
that we've never tapped.